[ESLint] Introduce a new setup process when `next lint` is run for the first time (#26584)
vercel/next.js: docs/basic-features/eslint.md

#     Base configuration
#     None
```

One of the following three options can be selected:

- **Strict**: Includes Next.js' base ESLint configuration along with a stricter [Core Web Vitals rule-set](/docs/basic-features/eslint.md#core-web-vitals). This is the recommended configuration for developers setting up ESLint for the first time.

  ```json
  {
    "extends": "next/core-web-vitals"
  }
  ```

- **Base**: Includes Next.js' base ESLint configuration.

  ```json
  {
    "extends": "next"
  }
  ```

- **None**: Does not include any ESLint configuration. Only select this option if you plan on setting up your own custom ESLint configuration.

If either of the two configuration options are selected, Next.js will automatically install `eslint` and `eslint-config-next` as development dependencies in your application and create an `.eslintrc` file in the root of your project that includes your selected configuration.

You can now run `next lint` every time you want to run ESLint to catch errors. Once ESLint has been set up, it will also automatically run during every build (`next build`). Errors will fail the build, while warnings will not.

> > If you do not want ESLint to run as a build step, refer to the documentation for [Ignoring ESLint](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/ignoring-eslint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you do not want ESLint to run during `next build`, refer to the documentation for [Ignoring ESLint](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/ignoring-eslint.md).
```

Author: Updated

yarn lint
```

If you don't already have ESLint configured in your application, you will be guided through the installation and configuration process.

```bash
yarn lint

# You'll see a prompt like this:
#
# ? How would you like to configure ESLint?
#
# ❯   Base configuration + Core Web Vitals rule-set (recommended)
#     Base configuration
#     None
```

One of the following three options can be selected:

- **Strict**: Includes Next.js' base ESLint configuration along with a stricter [Core Web Vitals rule-set](/docs/basic-features/eslint.md#core-web-vitals). This is the recommended configuration for developers setting up ESLint for the first time.

  ```json
  {
    "extends": "next/core-web-vitals"
  }
  ```

- **Base**: Includes Next.js' base ESLint configuration.

  ```json
  {
    "extends": "next"
  }
  ```

> - **None**: Does not include any ESLint configuration. Only select this option if you plan on setting up your own custom ESLint configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cancel**: Does not include any ESLint configuration. Only select this option if you plan on setting up your own custom ESLint configuration.
```

Author: Ah forget to update this here, thanks!

> If either of the two configuration options are selected, Next.js will automatically install `eslint` and `eslint-config-next` as development dependencies in your application and create an `.eslintrc` file in the root of your project that includes your selected configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If either of the two configuration options are selected, Next.js will automatically install `eslint` and `eslint-config-next` as development dependencies in your application and create an `.eslintrc.json` file in the root of your project that includes your selected configuration.
```

Author: Updated :)

- ✔: Enabled in the recommended configuration

If you already have ESLint configured in your application, we recommend extending from this plugin directly instead of including `eslint-config-next` unless a few conditions are met. Refer to the [Recommended Plugin Ruleset](/docs/basic-features/eslint.md#recommended-plugin-ruleset) to learn more.

## Linting Custom Directories

By default, Next.js will run ESLint for all files in the `pages/`, `components/`, and `lib/` directories. However, you can specify which directories using the `dirs` option in the `eslint` config in `next.config.js` for production builds:

```js
module.exports = {
  eslint: {
    dirs: ['pages', 'utils'], // Only run ESLint on the 'pages' and 'utils' directories during production builds (next build)
  },
}
```

Similarly, the `--dir` flag can be used for `next lint`:

```bash

> yarn lint --dir pages --dir utils

Reviewer: ```suggestion
next lint --dir pages --dir utils
```

Author: Updated 👍
